# What heating does the building need?

This can be a difficult question to answer.  Historic Environment Scotland contends that for older buildings, as long as you pay careful attention to avoiding damp and there is nothing in the building (like oil paintings) with special requirements, heating for the sake of the building may not be necessary at all.  After all, some of our oldest buildings originally had no heating except perhaps stoves lit just when there were people around.  

The usual approach is to choose a "setback" temperature for the space, and have the heating system bring the system on if the space falls below it. For more modern buildings, the architect's intended temperature might be specified on the architectural drawings. For older buildings, the minimal requirement appears to be keeping the building at a high enough temperature to guarantee it will stay above dewpoint, to avoid condensation.  Under UK conditions sometimes the advice is to enforce 7C as a bare minimum for this reason.

:TODO: ask the building services engineers whether design temperatures are sometimes "better safe than sorry" and there's any rubrics for how to set the setback temperature.  I think it takes professional advice to know what temperature to use, but I'm not convinced the professionals usually give this advice.  Churches in particular are usually just asked "what temperature do you want me to use."

For massive stone buildings that are in occasional use, there can be a second benefit to enforcing a setback temperature:  thermal comfort.   Consider two ways of using the same amount of gas.  The first leaves the building cold most of the the time, whacking on the heating to bring up the air temperature when people will be in.  This is what most building operators do.  The second takes the same energy, but applies some of it to enforce a setback temperature that will make the walls warmer, and the rest to raise the air temperature when people are in, but more modestly.  The bigger the difference between the air temperature inside and outside the building, the faster the heat loss.  In the second case, the building will retain more of the heat, and could be as comfortable - because the internal surfaces are a bit warmer, and because it will have fewer draughts.  It will also be noticeably more comfortable for people who are in the building at odd times, and better for any delicate artefacts in the building, like organs, as they prefer gentle changes.  Unfortunately, it's tricky to predict the effects of different heating policies on thermal comfort and cost for a given building, and also difficult to determine empirically just because weather is so variable.