# Strategies for heating a building

Most community buildings use space heating to make their users comfortable, like in most houses.  They try to get all of the air contained without the building's envelope warm.  If the heating is on often enough this will also warm the building structure itself, at least if the building is well-insulated, draught-proofed and so on.  This of course in turn makes the occupant comfortable at a lower air temperature than if the surrounding surfaces were cold.

Modern radiators are an example of a space heating appliance.  Although they are called "radiators", they mainly heat a space by air moving over the surfaces and fins of the radiator - *convection* - rather than by radiation.  The warm air rises, then as it continues to move cools, eventually falling back down and getting pulled back past the radiator again, in a *convection cell*.  This pattern is why radiators are very often placed under windows - the rising warm air will counteract the natural down-draught from air cooling when it touches the window.  

Of course, radiators are warm so they do also provide some heat via radiation, or even by conduction if you lean against them, but most of the effect is through convection.

Space heating is an expensive way to make occupants comfortable in a building that is only used for a few hours a week, because the building will have to be heated from scratch for every group that uses it - and to a relatively high temperature to compensate for the cold surfaces.   Draughts are worse in a building with space heating until the space is held at its target temperature with established convection cells, compounding the problem - because occupants are much more likely to encounter the building while it is still warming up if the building is constantly warming up and cooling down.  Unless a building is in high use, it's also very difficult to afford heat loss mitigations like better glazing or to convince grant funders that the building is providing enough community amenity to be worth their investment.  However, space heating isn't the only strategy for making people comfortable.  

