# What you will learn

In the programme, you will learn how heating and ventilation systems work and where the big heat losses in traditional buildings occur. You will use that learning to understand your own buildings.  You will also learn about thermal comfort, where the temperature a thermostat shows is not the whole story, and what this means for how you use your spaces. Finally, you will learn how to check whether your systems are working correctly, fit for purpose, and how to plan for future changes.  This might sound technical and scary, but don't worry, we aren't trying to make you into an engineer, just help you know what they do and work with them better!

To help you understand your buildings, we will provide you with little devices you can put in your spaces that will collect regular temperature and relative humidity readings.  You do not need to know how they work, but with the aid of your group’s engineer, you will learn how to spot some basic problems on the data they provide.  We also have some specialist equipment available by post for those who need it to look at specific issues.  The data our equipment collects, along with other information you will be collecting, will form a profile of your premises and how you use them.  This profile is intended to help professionals understand what you need and serve you better.  

Much of the programme isn't technical at all - it's discussion about what your building is for and how it should be used and managed in the future.  For this, towards the end, you'll need to engage with others in your local community.  After all, it's space that serves them.  This kind of conversation will be a new one to many groups, and so the programme is designed to equip you for that, too, by showing you some good ways to engage the people you serve. 