# Applying heat to the people

Instead of trying to warm all of the air in a space by convection, it's possible to use the other heat transfer methods - radiation and conduction - to make people comfortable. This is sometimes referred to as *localised heating*.  This really just means applying heat to the people and not trying to make all the air in the space warm.  

Infrared panels are an example of localised heating.  They work by radiation to make the people in the space feel warm, and if they are well-positioned in a space, will warm all of the surrounding surfaces so people don't feel too warm on one side and too cold on the other.  They don't need to be turned on ahead of time for a warm-up period as they provide instant heat.  This has many advantages for buildings in low occupancy, both in ensuring energy costs are proportional to the building use and in reducing the burden on volunteers to set the heating for individual room hires.

Heated seating, like heated pew cushions, is another example, but this time one that works by conduction. 

Just as heating appliances that aim to heat the air by convection also transfer heat by the other methods, these heat appliances will by side effect also warm the air. It's all a matter of degree. It's useful to think in terms of what your heating appliances are trying to do and whether this is appropriate to how you use your building.  For instance, community buildings often still have the old-fashioned type of cast iron column radiator.  These warm up relatively slowly, but they retain heat and radiate it (as well as convecting) for a long time, making them good for spaces that are in use for long periods and difficult in ones where the people will only be in for an hour.  If they are small and placed very near people, probably the designer was relying on radiation and conduction and they may never have been intended to bring the space to full heat.  

Understanding what you have and what it does is the key to knowing what you can change to make a space more comfortable on less energy.  In particular, heat loss mitigations like improved glazing and insulation are necessary if you are space heating the building, but with localised heating, they are much less important. 