# Protect your heating system from interference
 
::::::{grid} 2
:gutter: 2
:outline: 
:class-row: centered

:::::{grid-item}
:columns: 3
```{image} /images/step-icons/step_2.svg
:width: 75px
:align: center
```


::::{grid}

:::{grid-item}

```{image} /images/carbon-icons/carbon_3.svg
:width: 50px
:align: center
```
:::

:::{grid-item}
```{image} /images/cost-icons/cost_1.svg
:width: 50px
:align: center
```
:::

::::

:::::

:::::{grid-item}
:columns: 9

**Protect your heating system from interference**

Users don’t understand how boilers and storage heaters work, but if they aren’t happy, they’ll turn dials and press buttons.  Try to block access to everything they shouldn’t alter with cupboard locks or tamper-proof covers.  If your boiler is in a public space, you may need to be creative about how to use joinery or paper blu-tacked over the controls to deter use.  It’s especially important not to let users re-pressurise your boilers.  If they do it while the system is running, that could damage them.  
:::::
::::::
Users don't understand how boilers work, but if they aren't happy, they will try anything they can find. They'll probably turn the dials on the boiler right up if they're cold.  It's especially important for them not to re-pressurise boilers themselves, even though they may think they know how to do this from home. If they do it while the system is running, that could damage it.  

If your boiler is in a public space, you may need to be creative about how to use joinery or paper blutacked over the controls to give the message that they are not for use.  

