# Turn off hot water preheat
 
::::::{grid} 2
:gutter: 2
:outline: 
:class-row: centered

:::::{grid-item}
:columns: 3
```{image} /images/step-icons/step_2.svg
:width: 75px
:align: center
```


::::{grid}

:::{grid-item}

```{image} /images/carbon-icons/carbon_1.svg
:width: 50px
:align: center
```
:::

:::{grid-item}
```{image} /images/cost-icons/cost_1.svg
:width: 50px
:align: center
```
:::

::::

:::::

:::::{grid-item}
:columns: 9

**Turn off hot water preheat**

On a combi-boiler, “hot water preheat” reduces how long we wait at the taps by keeping some water hot all the time, but usually the real problem is the distance to the boiler.   Turn it off if you can.  A good electrician can disable it or make it operate using a timeswitch.  There are also valves that save water and claim to deliver hot water faster by reducing the flow at the tap until the water is hot, but we haven’t tried them.
:::::
::::::

On a combi-boiler, “hot water preheat” keeps a bit of water warm at all times in case you want to wash your hands. It makes the water in your tap run hot faster than it would without it, although if it's a long way between the boiler and the tap you'll never notice the difference.  

```{image} ../images/eco-button.jpg
:alt: example combi boiler control for hot water preheat
:class: bg-primary mb-1
:width: 400px
:align: center
```
*one example of this control - every boiler is a little different*

In houses, hot water preheat typically accounts for 5-10% of the gas bill.  In community buildings, hot water preheat is particularly wasteful because it’s on 24/7, but most community buildings don’t have anyone in overnight.  If your building users really can't tolerate the delay, on some boilers a more adventurous electrician can tie it to the heating time switch so that the water only preheats when people are in. 


```{admonition} More information
- [Turn off the preheat on your Worcester combi boiler](https://www.theheatinghub.co.uk/articles/Worcester-hot-water-preheat) - the same website has instructions for many boilers

```