# Insulate under the ground floor
 
::::::{grid} 2
:gutter: 2
:outline: 
:class-row: centered

:::::{grid-item}
:columns: 3
```{image} /images/step-icons/step_3.svg
:width: 75px
:align: center
```


::::{grid}

:::{grid-item}

```{image} /images/carbon-icons/carbon_4.svg
:width: 50px
:align: center
```
:::

:::{grid-item}
```{image} /images/cost-icons/cost_3.svg
:width: 50px
:align: center
```
:::

::::

:::::

:::::{grid-item}
:columns: 9

**Insulate under the ground floor**

The heat lost through floors is usually less than through other surfaces, but a cold floor makes people uncomfortable.  For suspended timber floors, the safest options are hemp batting hung in nets under the joists or breathable boards lain on runners attached to the joists.  It can be installed by lifting a selection of floorboards.  Solid floors lose less heat than suspended ones. If a solid floor can't be lifted it can be insulated over the top or when the floor needs replaced.  
:::::
::::::
As a very rough figure, 10% of the heat loss for an uninsulated building is through the flooring, but because people come into contact with the floor, it has a bigger effect on thermal comfort.  Just providing warmer surface coverings like carpets can improve thermal comfort and retain a little more heat.

Although it's easy to find vendors who are willing to put non-breatheable insulation under suspended timber floors, conservation architects tell us this risks condensation and damp.  They particularly recommend natural materials - either hemp batting hung in nets under the joists or breatheable boards lain on runners attached to the joists.  If you don't have access from under the floor this means removing some of the floorboards temporarily.

Concrete and other floors that can't be lifted are either insulated over the top, creating a step up, or when the concrete needs replaced.  Solid floors generally lose less heat than suspended ones. 


```{admonition} More information
- [Brief introduction to floor insulation (Historic Environment Scotland)](https://www.historicenvironment.scot/advice-and-support/your-property/saving-energy-in-traditional-buildings/insulate-your-property/#floors_tab)
- [Short Guide: Fabric Improvements for Energy Efficiency (Historic Environment Scotland)](https://www.historicenvironment.scot/archives-and-research/publications/publication/?publicationId=179c1909-3679-4486-9583-a59100fa98c1)
```