# Turn sunshine into electricity
 
::::::{grid} 2
:gutter: 2
:outline: 
:class-row: centered

:::::{grid-item}
:columns: 3
```{image} /images/step-icons/step_5.svg
:width: 75px
:align: center
```


::::{grid}

:::{grid-item}

```{image} /images/carbon-icons/carbon_4.svg
:width: 50px
:align: center
```
:::

:::{grid-item}
```{image} /images/cost-icons/cost_4.svg
:width: 50px
:align: center
```
:::

::::

:::::

:::::{grid-item}
:columns: 9

**Turn sunshine into electricity**

Photovoltaic (PV) solar panels generate electricity for immediate use, battery storage, or sale to the grid and are becoming more acceptable even on listed buildings.   There are ground mounted solar panels for those with enough space.   If finance is an issue for you, a solar cooperative might be willing to take your site on. Be cautious about your roof if it is weak, high up, or has lots of obstacles, and check the payback for your situation.  Also make sure to think about any impacts on rainwater clearance.
:::::
::::::

Photovoltaic (PV) solar panels generate electricity for you to use in your building, either immediately or by storing it in a battery, or for you to sell to the grid.  

Larger installations tend to be cheaper to install per panel, but if you have a high roof, you need to consider the added cost of working at height.  You also need to think about the state of your roof.  You will need a structural engineer to make sure your roof can hold their weight and to consider whether your current roof covering is secure enough for the solar panels not to cause it problems.  Slates are fragile and require maintenance that is more difficult with solar panels in place.Also, solar panels can change the flow of rainfall and might require some changes to water clearance arrangements.  Dormers, steeples, chimneys, skylights, and ventilation stacks can all get in the way and make an installation more complicated.

The ideal roofs for solar panels face south and have a 30 degree slope - the steeper the roof, the more important it is that it faces the right direction.  Shading will reduce the output of solar panels, so it's important to keep in mind that trees grow and new buildings might go up during their 25 year lifespan.  

If you have a suitable roof for solar panels but would struggle to raise the cost of installation, there are solar cooperatives that might be willing to take the project on.

```{admonition} More information
- [Solar panels for community buildings (Scotland)](https://localenergy.scot/resource/solar-pv/)
- [Solar energy calculator](https://energysavingtrust.org.uk/tool/solar-energy-calculator/) - but the incentives for community buildings are not the same
```


